hey there are some issues I really
hesitate to deal with on this channel
because they're so hard to speak about
with concision ah Noam Chomsky supported
the Khmer Rouge some people already will
be closing this video when fusing to
hear what I say or demanding know how
this can possibly be true yeah you can
imagine why I hesitate to make this
video look I spent years of my life
studying the politics in history
Cambodia
Noam Chomsky didn't okay if you watching
this video has spent years studying the
history and politics Cambodia good I'm
happy for you there may still be more
that you can learn there may still be a
few facts in this short video that
surprised you and maybe not maybe you're
one of the lucky few people who already
know everything I have to share with you
in these next few minutes okay but there
is no point in being angry at me below
this video I provide a link to an
article by a guy named er so pal his
family name is Phil ei R I see
mispronounced yeah he is a Cambodian
American I knew him years ago we now
haven't spoken for a few years hi so pal
if you watch this video that is really a
very reasonable very patient article if
you read it from beginning to end
it does not just point a finger at Noam
Chomsky and say chops he supported the
Khmer Rouge therefore Chomsky is a bad
guy it gives you a sense of the whole
intellectual milieu of what was going on
at that time it gives you a sense of
what Chomsky was reading what he was
influenced by what he was reacting to
and I want to make a concession here to
Chomsky that also gets at one of the
deeper problems Chomsky was a member of
a generation who were deeply scarred by
the Vietnam War and by some specific
incidents of the Vietnam War such as the
Gulf of Tonkin
incident if you haven't heard of that
it's a good idea to look it up on
Wikipedia the gulf of tonkin incident t
o NK i n that incident it's not so much
what happened it's the fact that for
people of Noam Chomsky's generation it
demonstrated that the CIA was willing to
lie to Congress the CIA was willing to
lie to the American journalists mislead
the newspapers and that to some extent
the facts of political history could be
a kind of fiction presented to
manipulate popular opinion to support US
foreign policy goals I completely
sympathize with why a guy like Noam
Chomsky and thousands of others maybe
millions of others I can completely
sympathize why many people respond to
that by losing all faiths and all trust
in what we would consider for lack of a
better term reputable sources of
information the CIA may lie to you about
one thing and tell you the truth about
another as CIA remains a tremendously
important source of information for this
to the world but if you grew up at the
time Noam Chomsky grew up it would be
easy to understand why a guy like that
would develop the attitude and the
outlook of thinking hey the US
government can lie to me about this if
so then the US government can lie to me
about millions of people being
slaughtered in Cambodia the US
government can completely misrepresent
mass murder under a notorious communist
dictatorship and why not that sort of
thing became believable to Chomsky as a
young man as a relatively young man and
it shows up in his writing about
Cambodia now the other problem here that
I think is relatively profound that we
all have to deal with no matter what our
field of study is no matter what our
interests are in life is simply that
Chomsky was not an expert on Cambodia
the moral justification for Chomsky
doing what he did was that he thought of
himself as a critic of u.s. foreign
policy but the truth is both in his book
which has the subtitle the political
economy of human rights and in lectures
he gave for decades afterwards Chomsky
actually did not know which side the
Americans were fighting on ok so you
can't criticize u.s. foreign policy in
this period by saying the US were
intentionally making the Khmer Rouge
look bad or vilifying the Khmer Rouge
which is a very large part of what
Chomsky has to say and why he is in
effect making excuses for glorifying or
supporting the Khmer Rouge and it's
suggesting that their atrocities are not
really so bad as the Americans made them
seem he also tries at some length he
tries to blame the Americans for the
deaths as if the people who were
slaughtered by the Khmer Rouge were
really killed by US bombardment aerial
bombardment from airplanes or as if the
aerial bombardment should be blamed for
atrocities and massacres carried out by
the Khmer Rouge like a cause and effect
mentality his whole level of
understanding of the Cambodian Civil War
and the Khmer Rouge period the communist
revolutionary period is simply too crude
to really be taken seriously if you are
in the tiny minority of people who have
really studied the political history and
so on but even so I'm not even gonna
point the finger and vilify Noam Chomsky
on this point because I have met and
spoken to people who really are lifelong
experts in Cambodia who did not know the
most fundamental political issues of
exactly this period of history
I spoke to Judy ledger would face to
face
she was and still is she's one of the
very few Americans who's a professor
basically of Cambodian politics
contemporary Cambodia and she did not
know that the Americans and the Khmer
Rouge were fighting on the same side in
that war so she was ignorant of and
wrong about exactly the issue that Noam
Chomsky was ignorant wrong about a guy
who was more sophisticated Michael
Vickery again so if you know and care
about Cambodian history these are two
very famous names duty leisure would
Michael victory
Michael Vickery I noticed that he wrote
about this but was always vague and
evasive so actually in the introduction
to the second edition of his book on the
Pol Pot period the Khmer Rouge period I
read very carefully what he said and
then I sent him an email saying look
I've studied this period of history and
I've written an article about it it
seems to me that you're aware that at
some point the Americans began
supporting Pol Pot the Khmers but you
don't know when that was it seems to me
he was dodging the question of
establishing when the policy decision
was taken and then I explained him look
if you read my article I explained I've
done the research I know when that was
and you should know sue and he had the
honesty he wrote back to me he admitted
that even though he devoted his life to
the study of Cambodia in this case he
did both ancient Cambodia and modern
Cambodia so he didn't just do Vietnam
War he didn't just do 20th century but I
appreciate he had the integrity to admit
that he did not know this that I was
telling him new information that he
didn't previously know but this Cambodia
ok so it is not even the case that I can
just say some people are experts on
Cambodia and Noam Chomsky is not one of
them therefore Noam Chomsky is not even
it sells over there I can't say that at
all
now on the other hand we also can't
trivialize what chomps he did and we
can't take away the responsibility for
both what he wrote in that book and what
he's done afterwards in defending the
book it is a terrible irony that noam
chomsky will be remembered for writing
what can be properly called Holocaust
denial literature because he actively
and intentionally denies the Holocaust
of what happened in Cambodia he actively
making speaks excuses for and denies the
reality of mass murder at that time if
you read the article by air--so Powell
in depth it will explain to you what was
known what was not known what exactly
Chomsky said sadly if you search around
the internet you were gonna see a lot of
half-baked excuses for Chomsky from some
of his fans who basically quote weasel
words who quote passages where Chomsky
equivocates and kind of sort of tells
you to different contradictory things at
the same time and doesn't directly say
what the purpose of his work as a whole
is his use of weasel words does not
exclude him it doesn't excuse him it
only is more damning because it makes it
clear that he is intentionally lying to
you and misleading you you can read here
suppose article if you're really
interested if you're not you can take my
word for it
what Chomsky really lacks is the
humility and the sympathy to learn from
his mistakes because learning is all
about recognizing that you were wrong
you're wrong again and again and again
but you don't learn from being wrong you
learn from recognizing that you're wrong
you don't learn from making mistakes you
learn from noticing your mistakes and
the terrible thing about Chomsky really
is and this whole debacle he got himself
into of making excuses for the Khmer
Rouge and refusing to back down on it
and so on he is the kind of guy
who refuses to admit that he's made
mistakes and therefore he fails to learn
from those mistakes